[Zen2] Update documentation for Zen2 (#34714)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/modules/discovery/quorums.asciidoc

[[modules-discovery-quorums]]
=== Quorum-based decision making

> 

Reviewer: This page has some really good, key conceptual information, so I think it should be moved up before a lot of the other pages.  Maybe right after the "Bootstrapping a cluster" page.  Maybe even sooner.

Electing a master node and changing the cluster state are the two fundamental
tasks that master-eligible nodes must work together to perform. It is important

> that these activities work robustly even if some nodes have failed, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that these activities work robustly even if some nodes have failed.
```

> Elasticsearch achieves this robustness by only considering each action to have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch achieves this robustness by considering each action to have
```

> succeeded on receipt of responses from a _quorum_, a subset of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
succeeded only on receipt of responses from a _quorum_, which is a subset of the
```

Author: I removed the suggested change `succeeded on` -> `succeeded based on` but accepted the other one. "Based on" to me suggests there might be additional criteria for success, whereas here "receipt from a quorum" is the only requirement.

master-eligible nodes in the cluster. The advantage of requiring only a subset

> of the nodes to respond is that it allows for some of the nodes to fail without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the nodes to respond is that it means some of the nodes can fail without
```

> preventing the cluster from making progress, and the quorums are carefully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
preventing the cluster from making progress. The quorums are carefully
```

> chosen so as not to allow the cluster to "split brain", i.e. to be partitioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chosen so the cluster does not have a "split brain" scenario where its partitioned
```

> into two pieces each of which may make decisions that are inconsistent with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into two pieces--each of which may make decisions that are inconsistent with
```

those of the other piece.

Elasticsearch allows you to add and remove master-eligible nodes to a running
cluster. In many cases you can do this simply by starting or stopping the nodes

> as required, as described in more detail in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as required. See
```

> <<modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes,section on adding and removing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<<modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes>>.
```

> nodes>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

electing a new master or committing a new cluster state. A decision is only made
once more than half of the nodes in the voting configuration have responded.
Usually the voting configuration is the same as the set of all the
master-eligible nodes that are currently in the cluster, but there are some
situations in which they may be different.

To be sure that the cluster remains available you **must not stop half or more
of the nodes in the voting configuration at the same time**. As long as more
than half of the voting nodes are available the cluster can still work normally.
This means that if there are three or four master-eligible nodes then the
cluster can tolerate one of them being unavailable; if there are two or fewer
master-eligible nodes then they must all remain available.

After a node has joined or left the cluster the elected master must issue a
cluster-state update that adjusts the voting configuration to match, and this
can take a short time to complete. It is important to wait for this adjustment
to complete before removing more nodes from the cluster.

[float]
==== Setting the initial quorum

> When a brand-new cluster starts up for the first time, one of the tasks it must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a brand-new cluster starts up for the first time, it must
```

> perform is to elect its first master node, for which it needs to know the set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
elect its first master node. To do this election, it needs to know the set
```

> of master-eligible nodes whose votes should count in this first election. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of master-eligible nodes whose votes should count. This
```

initial voting configuration is known as the _bootstrap configuration_ and is
set in the <<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster,cluster bootstrapping
process>>.

> 

Reviewer: If I'm understanding correctly, it seems like this "Setting the initial quorum" information should be merged with the "Bootstraping a cluster" page. I think this information here is a better overview than what correctly exists in the "Bootstrapping..." page.

It is important that the bootstrap configuration identifies exactly which nodes

> should vote in the first election, and it is not sufficient to configure each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should vote in the first election. It is not sufficient to configure each
```

node with an expectation of how many nodes there should be in the cluster. It
is also important to note that the bootstrap configuration must come from

> outside the cluster: there is no safe way for the cluster to determine the

Reviewer: It is not clear what is meant by "outside the cluster".

bootstrap configuration correctly on its own.

> If the bootstrap configuration is not set correctly then there is a risk when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the bootstrap configuration is not set correctly, when
```

> starting up a brand-new cluster is that you accidentally form two separate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you start a brand-new cluster there is a risk that you will accidentally form two separate
```

> clusters instead of one. This could lead to data loss: you might start using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clusters instead of one. This situation can lead to data loss: you might start using
```

> both clusters before noticing that anything had gone wrong, and it will then be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both clusters before you notice that anything has gone wrong and it is
```

impossible to merge them together later.

NOTE: To illustrate the problem with configuring each node to expect a certain
cluster size, imagine starting up a three-node cluster in which each node knows
that it is going to be part of a three-node cluster. A majority of three nodes

> is two, so normally the first two nodes to discover each other will form a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is two, so normally the first two nodes to discover each other form a
```

> cluster and the third node will join them a short time later. However, imagine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster and the third node joins them a short time later. However, imagine
```

> that four nodes were erroneously started instead of three: in this case there

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that four nodes were erroneously started instead of three. In this case, there
```

are enough nodes to form two separate clusters. Of course if each node is

> started manually then it's unlikely that too many nodes are started, but it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
started manually then it's unlikely that too many nodes are started. If you're using an automated orchestrator, however, it's
```

> certainly possible to get into this situation if using a more automated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certainly possible to get into this situation.
```

> orchestrator, particularly if the orchestrator is not resilient to failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
particularly if the orchestrator is not resilient to failures
```

such as network partitions.

The initial quorum is only required the very first time a whole cluster starts

> up: new nodes joining an established cluster can safely obtain all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up. New nodes joining an established cluster can safely obtain all the
```

> information they need from the elected master, and nodes that have previously

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information they need from the elected master. Nodes that have previously
```

> been part of a cluster will have stored to disk all the information required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
been part of a cluster will have stored to disk all the information that is required
```

> when restarting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when they restart.
```

Reviewer: Or ...to restart?

[float]

> ==== Cluster maintenance, rolling restarts and migrations

Reviewer: This seems like it could be a separate page under "Discovery and cluster formation".

Many cluster maintenance tasks involve temporarily shutting down one or more
nodes and then starting them back up again. By default Elasticsearch can remain
available if one of its master-eligible nodes is taken offline, such as during a
<<rolling-upgrades,rolling restart>>. Furthermore, if multiple nodes are stopped
and then started again then it will automatically recover, such as during a
<<restart-upgrade,full cluster restart>>. There is no need to take any further
action with the APIs described here in these cases, because the set of master
nodes is not changing permanently.

[float]

> ==== Auto-reconfiguration

Reviewer: Maybe "Maintaining the quorum automatically" or something along those lines?

Author: Updated in 6af37215ff9 to "Automatic changes to the voting configuration" - I avoided the word "maintaining" because of the collision with "maintenance" in the previous section.

Nodes may join or leave the cluster, and Elasticsearch reacts by making
corresponding changes to the voting configuration in order to ensure that the
cluster is as resilient as possible. The default auto-reconfiguration behaviour

> is expected to give the best results in most situation. The current voting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is expected to give the best results in most situations. The current voting
```

configuration is stored in the cluster state so you can inspect its current
contents as follows:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/state?filter_path=metadata.cluster_coordination.last_committed_config
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

NOTE: The current voting configuration is not necessarily the same as the set of
all available master-eligible nodes in the cluster. Altering the voting

> configuration itself involves taking a vote, so it takes some time to adjust the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration involves taking a vote, so it takes some time to adjust the
```

configuration as nodes join or leave the cluster. Also, there are situations
where the most resilient configuration includes unavailable nodes, or does not
include some available nodes, and in these situations the voting configuration

> will differ from the set of available master-eligible nodes in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
differs from the set of available master-eligible nodes in the cluster.
```

> Larger voting configurations are usually more resilient, so Elasticsearch will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Larger voting configurations are usually more resilient, so Elasticsearch
```

> normally prefer to add master-eligible nodes to the voting configuration once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
normally prefers to add master-eligible nodes to the voting configuration after
```

> they have joined the cluster. Similarly, if a node in the voting configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they join the cluster. Similarly, if a node in the voting configuration
```

leaves the cluster and there is another master-eligible node in the cluster that
is not in the voting configuration then it is preferable to swap these two nodes

> over, leaving the size of the voting configuration unchanged but increasing its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
over. The size of the voting configuration is thus unchanged but its
```

> over, leaving the size of the voting configuration unchanged but increasing its

Reviewer: It is unclear whether this "swapping over" is done automatically or whether some action is required by the user.

> resilience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resilience increases.
```

It is not so straightforward to automatically remove nodes from the voting

> configuration after they have left the cluster, and different strategies have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration after they have left the cluster. Different strategies have
```

different benefits and drawbacks, so the right choice depends on how the cluster

> will be used and is controlled by the following setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be used. You can control whether the voting configuration automatically shrinks by using the following setting:
```

`cluster.auto_shrink_voting_configuration`::

    Defaults to `true`, meaning that the voting configuration will automatically

>     shrink, shedding departed nodes, as long as it still contains at least 3

Reviewer: It is unclear what is meant by "shredding departed nodes".

    nodes.  If set to `false`, the voting configuration never automatically
    shrinks; departed nodes must be removed manually using the
    <<modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes,voting configuration exclusions API>>.

NOTE: If `cluster.auto_shrink_voting_configuration` is set to `true`, the
recommended and default setting, and there are at least three master-eligible
nodes in the cluster, then Elasticsearch remains capable of processing
cluster-state updates as long as all but one of its master-eligible nodes are
healthy.

There are situations in which Elasticsearch might tolerate the loss of multiple
nodes, but this is not guaranteed under all sequences of failures. If this
setting is set to `false` then departed nodes must be removed from the voting
configuration manually, using the
<<modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes,voting exclusions API>>, to achieve
the desired level of resilience.

> Note that Elasticsearch will not suffer from a "split-brain" inconsistency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No matter how it is configured, Elasticsearch will not suffer from a "split-brain" inconsistency.
```

> however it is configured. This setting only affects its availability in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cluster.auto_shrink_voting_configuration` setting affects only its availability in the
```

event of the failure of some of its nodes, and the administrative tasks that
must be performed as nodes join and leave the cluster.

[float]
==== Even numbers of master-eligible nodes

There should normally be an odd number of master-eligible nodes in a cluster.

> If there is an even number then Elasticsearch will leave one of them out of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is an even number, Elasticsearch leaves one of them out of the
```

> voting configuration to ensure that it has an odd size. This does not decrease

Reviewer: ```suggestion
voting configuration to ensure that it has an odd size. This omission does not decrease
```

> the failure-tolerance of the cluster, and in fact improves it slightly: if the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the failure-tolerance of the cluster. In fact, improves it slightly: if the
```

> cluster is partitioned into two even halves then one of the halves will contain

Author: Not quite, but the changes in 0b2b63ccd26 are hopefully helpful to clarify what I did mean.

> a majority of the voting configuration and will be able to keep operating,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a majority of the voting configuration and will be able to keep operating.
```

> whereas if all of the master-eligible nodes' votes were counted then neither

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all of the master-eligible nodes' votes were counted, neither
```

side could make any progress in this situation.

For instance if there are four master-eligible nodes in the cluster and the

> voting configuration contained all of them then any quorum-based decision would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
voting configuration contained all of them, any quorum-based decision would
```

> require votes from at least three of them, which means that the cluster can only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
require votes from at least three of them. This situation means that the cluster can only
```

> tolerate the loss of a single master-eligible node. If this cluster were split

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tolerate the loss of only a single master-eligible node. If this cluster were split
```

into two equal halves then neither half would contain three master-eligible

> nodes so would not be able to make any progress. However if the voting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nodes and the cluster would not be able to make any progress. However if the voting
```

> configuration contains only three of the four master-eligible nodes then the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration contains only three of the four master-eligible nodes, however, the
```

cluster is still only fully tolerant to the loss of one node, but quorum-based
decisions require votes from two of the three voting nodes. In the event of an
even split, one half will contain two of the three voting nodes so will remain

> available.

Reviewer: It's not clear what "will remain available".  The cluster?  Decision-making progress?

Author: added "that half" in f24c1d9dc52.
